# Configuration File

Below is a list of the available configuration options for Revizor, which are passed down to Revizor via a config file.
For an example of how to write the config file, see [src/tests/big-fuzz.yaml](src/tests/big-fuzz.yaml).
 
Some of the options are omitted from the list as they should not be used in a normal fuzzing campaign.
For a complete list, see `src/config.py`.

## Contract

* `contract_execution_clause` : List[str]: Execution clause.
  Available options: "seq", "cond", "bpas", "null-injection".
* `contract_observation_clause` [str]: Observation clause.
  Available options: "l1d", "memory", "ct", "pc", "ct-nonspecstore", "ctr", "arch".

## General Configuration

* `enable_priming` [bool]: priming.
* `logging_modes` List[str]: Verbosity of the output.
  Available options:
  `info` - general information about the progress of fuzzing;
  `stat` - statistics the end of the fuzzing campaign;
  `dbg_timestamp` - periodically print the timestamp during the fuzzing process;
  `dbg_violation` - detailed information about the fuzzing progress and about the detected vulnerabilities;
  `dbg_traces` - print ALL hardware and contract traces (use carefully, produces lots of text);
  `dbg_model` - print a detailed trace of ALL executions on the model (use carefully, produces lots of text);
  `dbg_coverage` - periodically report detailed information about the changes in coverage.
  `dbg_generator` - report information for each program generated by the test case generator.
  `dbg_input_gen` - report information for each input generated by the input generator.
* `multiline_output` [bool]: Print each output message on a separate line.
  Preferred when piping the log into a file.

# Model Configuration

* `model` [str]: Model type.
  Only one option is currently supported - "unicorn" (default).
* `model_max_nesting` [int]: Maximum number of simulated mispredictions.
* `model_max_spec_window` [int]: Size of the speculation window.

# Generator Configuration

* `instruction_set`  [str]: Tested ISA.
  Only one option is currently supported - "x86-64" (default).
* `generator` [str]: Test case generator type.
  Only one option is currently supported - "random" (default).
* `program_generator_seed` [int]: Test case generation seed.
  Will use a random seed if set to zero.
* `min_bb_per_function` [int]: Minimum number of basic blocks per test case.
* `max_bb_per_function` [int]: Maximum number of basic blocks per test case.
* `min_successors_per_bb` [int]: Minimum number of successors for each basic block.
* `max_successors_per_bb` [int]: Maximum number of successors for each basic block.
* `program_size` [int]: Number of instructions per test case.
  The actual size might be larger because of the instrumentation.
* `avg_mem_accesses` [int]: Average number of memory accesses per test case.
* `instruction_categories` [list(str)]: List of instruction categories to be used when generating a test case.
  Used to filter out instructions from the instruction set file passed via command line (`--instruction-set`).
* `instruction_blocklist` [list(str)]: List of instructions to be excluded by the generator.
  Used to filter out instructions from the instruction set file passed via command line (`--instruction-set`).
* `gadget_file` [str]: The path to a user-defined "gadget" file.  See below for a description of gadgets.
* `avg_gadgets_per_bb` [float]: A number used to increase or decrease the amount of gadgets that are placed into generated programs.
* `max_gadgets_per_bb` [int]: A hard maximum for the number of gadgets to be placed inside each basic block.

## Gadgets

Revizor's program generator allows for the optional specification of a "gadget file" containing
user-defined code gadgets. A **gadget** is a small collection of assembly instructions in a specific
order. Certain combinations of assembly instructions may create interesting behavior on the target
CPU, but it's often very rare for this combination to be generated with the program generator's
purely-random instruction placement. This is why gadgets are supported.

The gadget file allows for the user of Revizor to specify one or more interseting combinations of
instructions (**gadgets**) that Revizor will use during program generation. Randomly, the program
generator will place a gadget into a basic block, rather than a random instruction.

The frequency of gadgets in generated programs can be tuned with the `avg_gadgets_per_bb` and
`max_gadgets_per_bb` config fields. Gadgets are specified as JSON, in the same format as the Revizor
ISA specification JSON file. Each gadget has a name, and optionally, a weight used to further tune
the appearance of specific gadgets in generated programs.
See `src/arm64/tests/example_gadgets.json` for an example of what a gadget file looks like.

# Input Generator Configuration

* `input_generator` [str]: Input generator type.
  Only one option is currently supported - "random" (default)
* `input_gen_seed` [int]: Input generation seed.
  Will use a random seed if set to zero.
* `input_gen_entropy_bits` [int]: Entropy of the random values created by the input generator.
* `inputs_per_class` [int]: Number of inputs per input class.

# Executor Configuration

* `executor` [str]: Executor type.
  Only one option is currently supported - "default".
* `executor_mode` [str]: Hardware trace collection mode.
  Available options: 'P+P' - prime and probe; 'F+R' - flush and reload; 'E+R' - evict and reload.
* `executor_warmups` [int]: Number of warmup rounds executed before starting to collect hardware traces.
* `executor_repetitions` [int]: Number of repetitions while collecting hardware traces.
* `executor_taskset` [int]: CPU number on which the executor is running test cases.
* `enable_ssbp_patch` [bool]: Enable a patch against Speculative Store Bypass (Intel-only).
  Enabled by default.
* `enable_pre_run_flush` [bool]: If enabled, the executor will do its best to flush the microarchitectural state before running test cases.
  Enabled by default.
* `enable_faulty_page` [bool]: If enabled, only of the sandbox memory pages will have the accessed bit set to zero, which will cause a microcode assist on the fist load/store to this page.
  Disabled by default.

# Analyser Configuration

* `analyser` [str]: Analyser type.
  Only one option is currently supported - "equivalence-classes" (default).
* `analyser_permit_subsets` [bool]: If enabled, the analyser will not label hardware traces as mismatching if they form a subset relation.
  Enabled by default.

# Coverage Configuration

* `coverage_type` [str]: Coverage type.
  Available options:
  'none' - disable coverage tracking;
  'dependent-pairs' - coverage of pairs of dependent instructions.
